9-Jan-95
Windows version has the new 1.21 LIB, the other files remain the same.
Included is the new .C and .H files that will be used by future
Bullet/Win versions (can be used now with this version).  The new .H
is being used by the DOS and OS/2 versions now.  See file NEW_HDR.ZIP.

Topics covered:  What's Different from the DOS version; Start-Up;
Distribution; History.

- What's Different from the DOS version

Bullet for Windows operates exactly like the DOS version except:

1. Windows version makes use of DPMI INT31/2 for translating collate table.

Essentially, Bullet for DOS and Bullet for Windows are functionally equivalent.
Bullet for DOS is included with all orders of Bullet for Windows.


- Start-Up

Have all the archive files listed in !PACKLST in an empty directory
for the installation.  Run WINSTALL.EXE from DOS.  Follow the instructions,
and after a couple of keypresses, WBULLET.LIB is ready to go to work.
After a successful install, move the HLP file to your help files' directory;
the LIB to your LIB directory; the H to your INCLUDE directory; and the
samples to where you want to test them -- actually, you can put the files
where ever you want.  The samples were compiled using the VC1.5 compiler,
and the QuickWin Windows library.  Borland's EasyWin can also be used.
Remember to align any and all Bullet structures to byte-alignment.  Watcom
users will need to make their own tests until some MFC samples are available.

Any problems with Bullet operating as expected should be directed to me at
the BBS Bullet conference, or through e-mail (see EMAIL.ADR file).  Read
the documentation first, though.


- Distribution

The shareware versions of Bullet, as well as all shareware versions of
my toolkits, may be included on any BBS (including, but not limited to,
Compuserve), and may be included on any shareware CD (including, but
not limited to, the SimTel collection).  In other words, you are granted
the right to distribute the shareware versions of Bullet by any means
that you are able, provided that it is understood that any collection
made by you is for your distribution cost of the media, and is not in any
way directly related to Bullet.


- History

-----------
9-Jan-95-lo
Bullet 1.21 Windows/DOS

CreateKXB would fail if ds!=ss.  Modified NEW_HDR.ZIP .h file.

--------------
5-Jan-95-chh
Bullet 1.20 (all versions)

Sync all versions to 1.20 (including upcoming OS/2)

Fixed AtExitXB bug (LO) where AtExitXB would fail if ExitPack (EP) structure
was not in DGROUP.  Other more minor things were changed, including C structure
names, updating of DOS versions to match Windows version.  OS/2 versions
in testing, both 16- and 32-bit versions for C, C++, and BASIC 7.

-------------
26-Dec-94-chh
Bullet for Windows 1.12
Memory leak

Fixed Windows memory leak.

------------
18-Nov-94-mg
Bullet for Windows 1.11
GetWinFlags, unreferenced error

Borland TLINK was not able to reference GetWinFlags.  Now using GETWINFLAGS.
Added #ifndef __BULLET_H to bullet.h.  No other changes.

---------
18-Aug-94
Bullet for Windows 1.10, Shareware version.


