  All parts of noregistered version of this package are free to redistribute
in original form for noncommercial use. No part of the code may be included
into another packages, except when linked to application program from
library. For exceptional cases you need a written permission from author.
When using this product I'm encouraging you to use wndversio() to get
information about this product and show it on the title screen or somewhere,
it's not essential of course, but after all, I have worked hard to make it
possible.

  Author: Tallinn, Estonia, 200108
          Akadeemia str. 1
          Tallinn Technical University
          Dept. of Radiotechnics
          Madis Kaal
          Fido 2:490/30

Turbo C, Turbo Assembler, Turbo Link and Turbo Lib are products
  of Borland International
DESQview and Manifest are products of Quartedeck Office Systems
Norton Guides is (C) 1987 by Peter Norton Computing

-----------------------------------------------------------------

10-Apr-91   I gave up trying to make independent mouse module and switched
            to easier (and better!) method instead - mouse driver uses hooks
            to hide and show mouse cursor. Now all low level functions are
            turning cursor on and off themselves. All this is now truly
            invisible for upper level and code is smaller. Code overhead
            for people not using mouse interface is only 8 bytes for two
            far pointers.
            Version changed to 3.2, ready to start shipping now...

30-Mar-91   Wrestling with mouse driver seems to have finished. Using mouse
            adds about 3KB code overhead, but I think that's good enough.
            Low level is powerful, high level lacks 'dragging' but it was
            too kinky...
            Version changed to 3.1 - name changed to SLICK!

--- The new era begins... With SLICK!

12-Mar-91   Hurray! Finally got _mymalloc() Turbo C compatible! And how
            easy it really was - one has just to change memory allocation
            strategy to 'last fit'. However, it won't help under DOS 2.x.
            This history list moved to separate file. Fixed _videoparm()
            for ill behaving VGA cards which do not update BIOS data.

            User request: shadows for windows, file input box, handle-
            oriented output to any window. The hell with it, 4th party must
            also have something to do.

20-Feb-91   Major changes in low level drivers. Video output is much
            faster now and DV buffers are handled correctly. Added one
            static structure which contains all information neccecary
            for video output plus some more. This technology also enables
            user virtual screens for future development. Code overhead
            reduced a lot but everything still runs without any
            initialization. This is first release which contains menu
            engine. No more source files to unregistered users - after
            all, they are my little secrets. Still without mouse support...
            Version changed to 3.0.

06-Jan-91   Added some comments and released the bug fix release.
            Version 2.08.01с

08-Dec-90   Menu system rewritten to use new function - raw menu
            driver.
            Version 2.08с

31-Nov-90   Added DVpause macro, fixed bug in snowtest(), waitkey()
            is giving up timeslices while waits for keystroke.
            As I haven't any problems with malloc() mixed with
            _mymalloc(), this stuff is removed from guide.
            New problem has stated instead : Mouse cursor under DV.
            "Licked over" all sources to look better and more alike
            to each other. Fixed _drawbox(), can now draw one-line
            box, using only 3 chars from frame string.
            Version 2.07с.

18-Oct-90   Collected some useful stuff from TC include files to
            window.h, #include <dos.h> is no longer needed. Added
            macros for DESQview task switching during scroll etc.
            Updated guide, note about alloc and so on...
            Version 2.06с.

17-Oct-90   Mart made some suggestions, added wndversio() function,
            Updated Guide version. Version 2.05с

13-Oct-90   Added _myrand() and _myseed(). Version 2.04с

06-Oct-90   Fixed bug in makewnd() made some weeks ago. Added function
            to detect and set video mode. Version 2.03с

01-Oct-90   Added some optimization flags for better code. Modified
            my node number in guide sources. Changed the contents of
            distributuin archive for easier update. Version 2.02с

27-Sep-90   Slight modifications to makewindow() for better zooming,
            changed version number to 2.01

12-Aug-90   Added viewport stuff making flat windows and shadows
            possible.

... dim past
