
                       ^BUsing WINDOW v2.08.01á^B

   As I wrote WINDOW for myself, it's an echo of my programming style,
 thus it may be neccesary for you to take a look to sources in order to
 fully understand what I'm doing. But in general, here is a list of
 things you must keep in mind when using this product.

   * Memory allocaion.

     Two new functions _mymalloc() and _myfree() are used by this
     package. They are small and do the job simply and efficently,
     however if you encounter some probles using TC's memory allocation
     functions when using this package, please let me know. Version
     2.08.01á also fixes the bug with _mymalloc() which has been left
     unnoticed because it was noticable only when allocating blocks over
     64K. 
 
   * Memory models.

     I'm using compact model usually, so I have no problems with data
     pointers and TC can handle far calls gracefully when functions are
     prototyped. Under near data models I noticed, that TC won't generate
     array of far pointers. However, as WINDOW does not need any arrays
     as parameter, it's not a problem.

   * "Snow" removal.

     Snow removal can be switched on and off with special bit in EGA
     information data ( in BIOS data segment ). When switched on, it'll
     stay on until somebody switches it off. You don't have to touch it
     when you have EGA or VGA because EGA BIOS will set this flag. If
     you have CGA this bit is uninitialized, so you have to set it your-
     self. If you have MONO or Hercules or you're using DesQview this
     bit is not tested at all.

   * Mouse under DESQview.

     When writing application which uses mouse, everything is OK as 
     long as you stay in DOS, when executed under DV your application
     makes screen I/O on DV virtual screen. Mouse driver does not know
     anything about DV, so it will really screw thing up on screen.
     DV mouse support will be included to WINDOW when I know how to do
     it...

'