Фирма ИНСАЙТ*INSIGHT Comp. - Официальный Дилер CLARION Software Corp.
103460, Москва, Зеленоград, Панфиловский проспект, корп. 1205
	т. 532-29-43, (531-82-30)       факс    531-18-94
	E-Mail: puh@pczz.msk.su         Fido:   2:5020/11.2
---------------------------------------------------------------------

            Clarion  Professional  Developer  3.0

                        Steve  Greiner

     Clarion  Tech  Journal,  September/October  1991 г.

   The Clarion Developers conference was a tremendous success,
and the  optimism over  the soon-to-come (first quarter, 1992)
release has heightened dramatically. The product additions and
enhancements announced  were beyond  the expectations  of most
Clarion developers, which was certainly good news. Even better
news was the aggressive marketing stance taken by both Clarion
the company and Clarion the product.

   The conference  itself involved  key players and press from
the industry,  and  will  go  a  long  way  towards  improving
Clarion's  posture  in  the  market-place.  More  importantly,
Clarion 3.O is now positioned as a powerhouse product for both
corporate and  independent developers. Clarion has ESSENTIALLY
moved away  from being a pseudo-database product into a multi-
platform business-applications  front-end.  This  will  widely
open up  the  corporate  market-place,  which  may  have  been
concerned over a proprietary language and a single-format data
file product.  For independents, this opens the add-on market:
you  can   now  sell   after-market   programs   to   existing
applications, rather  than  being limited to bidding rewrites.
This is an especially important point, which we'll talk  about
shortly.

   First, some of the new features.
                     Optimizing  Compiler

   Probably the most significant enhancement to Clarion 3.0 is
its use of the TopSpeed optimizing compiler, which promises us
some truly  remarkable  performance  potential.  CPU-intensive
operations will  run hundreds  of times  faster then  possible
under the current  compiler, yet with smaller .EXE files. This
means that,  for those  of you  who write them,  "Hello World"
programs should  occupy about  10K of  memory. There's not too
much   to say,  but the  bottom  line  is:  much  faster  much
smaller.

   Another significant  improvement under this technology (and
included with  Clarion) arises  in the  debugging  facilities.
TopSpeed's debugger,  VID  (supplied  with  Clarion  3.0),  is
light-years ahead  of Clarion's current debugger in both power
and ease of use. (Note: because of the following item, Clarion
will also be CodeView compatible, though the TopSpeed debugger
is comparable.)

                    True  Object  Modules

   An offshoot of the new compiler is that Clarion object code
now becomes "true" object code, meaning that you can link with
object  modules   from  other   languages.  This  removes  the
necessity of  special LEMs and the LEM maker, because LEMs can
now simply be written in the language of choice, compiled with
an object-compatible  Compiler, and  linked with  your Clarion
program. (LEMs will still be supported, however, with 3.0)
                       Smart  Linking.

   Another result  of the new compiler technology shows itself
in  the   linking  methods.   Currently,  the  granularity  of
Clarion's library  is so  large that often .EXE's contain many
unused procedures.  The new  version is  smart enough  to only
include called procedures. i.e..,

   The finest  level of granularity, thus reducing the size of
the final executable program.

                Incremental  linking/compiling

   This means that the compile and link step is not an all-or-
nothing ordeal, rather Clarion will do the least possible work
to produce  the desired  end  result.  When  you  make  source
changes, whether  it  be  in  Editor  or  Designer,  only  the
differential will  be re-compiled  and re-linked. This reduces
the time for each iteration in the development/test cycle, and
you WILL be able to run almost immediately after a source-code
modification.

                      Memory  Management

                Eliminate  the  640K  barrier

   This is  the result  of  TopSpeed's  Dynamic  Link  Library
(DLL), and  it does  away with  the concept of overlays as now
implemented in  Clarion. Even  if you  end up  with huge (many
megabytes) .EXE's  (which will  how be less likely), they will
always fit  and run  in available memory (assuming, of course,
some base requirement). This will allow programs that now only
run on  elaborate systems  to run  on many  lower-end systems,
such as existing 8088 machines on networks. On systems that do
have better capabilities, applications will run even faster.

                Expanded  and  Extended Memory

   There will  be no  more RAM-disk  use  of  virtual  memory.
Rather, Clarion  WILL now  use any  available system memory to
run and/or  store and  swap procedures and data. This will all
be transparent  to both  the developer  and the  end user, and
basically means  that you  can stop thinking (or at least stop
worrying) about it.

           Designer  as  an  Application  Generator

   The  concept  of  Designer  has  changed  from  that  of  a
prototyping tool,  to a  full-fledged applications  generator.
And, the  tools are  there  to  fully  support  that  concept,
namely, Designer becomes an application generator AND manager,
with the  capabilities to  maintain (not  simply generate) ANY
application.  This  was  primarily    accomplished  by  making
Designer dumber  - all  of the  intelligence has been moved to
the model  files. Yes,  this means  that you  can place source
code anywhere in your Designer applications. Anywhere. It also
means that  there are  no  longer  four  predefined  procedure
types; you  can have  as many or as few procedure types as you
like, each  one having  the prompts  you  need  or  like,  and
whatever tokens you think it should have.

   This is  all possible because the model file determines the
actions of the Designer environment, rather then the other way
around. You can do things like put multiple keys into a single
table procedure, with the ability to sort the table by any one
of those  keys, and  Designer's prompt  when  you  select  the
Options screen for that procedure will ask for all appropriate
keys. This  opens the  doors  to  Designer-based  "hot  table"
procedures, "dual scrolling table" procedures, batch routines,
and on and on.

   And yes,  this does mean that the Designer models will have
their own  model  language,  which  is  likely  to  be  a  bit
difficult. But,  take heart,  because you  can be assured that
the third-party  model developers  will be providing early and
strong support.  This new  technology will  allow them  to  do
their jobs much better than before, in fact, they will be able
to concentrate on bringing features to you rather than on ways
to "trick"  Designer and  Clarion into  working around current
limitations.

                      Database  Drivers

   Clarion has  moved itself  from  the  proprietary  database
market, end  opened itself  to all  major platforms. A partial
list follows,  and Clarion  has announced  their intention  to
devote a  certain number  of resources to developing even more
drivers. While  the Clarion  file format,  certainly a  robust
one, will  continue to  be supported,  moving the  emphasis to
other  formats   not  only   provides  more   flexibility  and
versatility for the product, it opens the door for development
of system  front-ends in  Clarion for  nearly any application,
from  corporate   heavyweight  systems  to  mom-and-pop  shop,
single-user  applications.   Database  drivers  that  will  be
included with the package:
     - Clarion
     - Xbase
     - Netware SQL
     - BTrieve
     - CTree

   Future drivers will likely include:
     - Oracle
     - SyBase
     - Paradox
     - SQL server
     - Gupta

   To top  it off,  the database  driver definitions  will  be
published, providing access to other formats for those who can
and/or need to do their own development.

                           SAA/CUA
                         Enhancements

   The new Clarion development environment will have drag-down
menus with  mouse support. And, these features will be easy to
implement in  your final  applications, through  new  language
structures designed  specifically for  SAA/CUA-type  interface
objects. This  makes Clarion 3.O SAA/CUA compliant. So for all
of you who have struggled with this one: Clarion will now have
built-in mechanisms to make any single-letter "trigger key" in
a menu string have its own color/atrbutes.

                     Database  Dictionary

   This is  my favorite.  Instead of  having Designer-only and
application-specific data  file declarations, the new database
dictionary will  allow you  to  globally  define  data  files,
including some  support for  primary and  foreign  keys.  This
means that  referential integrity  (and subsequently,  to some
extent, transaction  integrity) are  declaratively  supported.
This is  good news  for database-designer types, who feel that
such issues should be migrating away  from procedural code.

   This dictionary  will be  a separate  tool (utility) on the
main menu,  and will  incorporate Scanner.  Scanner, in  turn,
will be able to read all supported file formats.

                     Screen  Enhancements

                Combining  Graphics  and  Text

   You will now have the ability to display graphics images on
any screen, in any size, at any time. Clarion will now support
a graphics  mode (through the use of a screen attribute) which
will make  a copy  of the  underlying text-based  screen,  and
reproduce it  graphically. You may then place a graphics image
anywhere on the screen object (more in a moment), yet continue
to work with the screen as if you were in text mode (with some
degradation in performance).

            Screen  objects  may  be  256  by  256

   One of the most useful aspects of Clarion was the treatment
of screens  as single entities, rather than a place where data
scrolls across  a monitor. The one limitation to this concept,
however, is  that standard  screens (25  x 80)  are too small.
Clarion has  resolved this by making a virtual screen of 256 x
256, and  giving  you  both  built-in  and  program-controlled
methods of  panning around  these screens. This means that you
get the  benefit of  screens as objects, yet you can do all of
those things that have been confining until now.
   Tables can  be wide  like spreadsheets,  and your users can
pan and  edit up  and  down,  left  and  right.  Pictures  (in
graphics mode)  can be larger than the screen, and you can pan
around on  these, also  (but,  no,  Clarion  is  not  a  paint
program). Forms  with too  many fields  that had  to be broken
into two,  can now remain one, end selecting the field "below"
the bottom  of the  screen will  simply scroll  the image up a
bit.

                  Help  System  Improvements

   Clarion's help  system is the best in the business, but two
major (and  logical) improvements  make it  even better.  Help
screens will  have the  ability to  scroll, and you can import
text from external sources, such as word processors.

                          GUI  Stuff

   There will  be a  Windows version  of Clarion  3.0 released
sometime after  the initial  release of  the DOS version. This
will be  a separate but comparable product specifically geared
for Windows.

                      New  Documentation

   Richard Taylor,  known to some of you through his exemplary
work in  PCIG's Tips  and Tricks  book,  is  writing  the  new
manuals for  3.0. In  addition to  his skill  and clarity as a
writer, the  manuals will  take new shape, both physically end
in format.

   Clarion will  move away  from perfect  binding for  the new
manuals, going  with a  loose binding  where the pages are not
glued to  the jacket. This will allow the manuals to lay flat,
as well as prevent pages from falling out after heavy use.

   The Utilities  Guide will  disappear from the lineup, to be
replaced with a Topics Book, where you can look up information
related to  certain types  of Clarion  activities, an improved
Getting Started  guide, and  an Indexed Tutorial. The Language
Reference will  retain a  similar  format,  but  will  be  re-
written.

                     Accounting,  Anyone?

   If you've  ever done any independent development work, then
you've likely experienced both of these situations: You have a
finished application  in a client's shop, and they want to add
an accounting  module; A  potential client  has an  accounting
package, and  they want  to add some other features to enhance
or co-exist  with that  package. Until  now, your options have
ben few,  and usually  expensive for  the client.  That's what
makes the  following news,  in itself  simple, of  such  vital
importance to everyone concerned with Clarion.

   Because database  drivers are  now the  method of operation
for Clarion,  interfacing with  file  types  is  a  matter  of
declaring those  file types  and  using  the  proper  database
driver.  Clarion   is  actively   arranging  agreements   with
accountng-software manufacturers to combine Clarion with their
products. In  some cases,  this will  mean that the accounting
package will  have an  optional  Clarion-interface  module  in
other  cases   you  will  buy  a  Clarion-supplied  accounting
package interface  module. In  either case (or with accounting
packages that  already use  supported data file types, such as
B-Trieve), once  the data  file declaration  is made,  you can
access and  use that  file just  like any  other allowing  you
total access to and/or from those packages.

   Yes, this  means  you  can  now  offer  low-cost  upgrades,
enhancements, utilities,  you-name-it, to many of your clients
who  were   previously  inaccessible.   This   means   a   new
marketability and  profitability for  the Clarion  development
community, as  well as  better and less expensive products for
the business  communities we  support. If you don't think that
this is  really big  news, then  sit back and let it sink in a
little bit. This IS BIG.

                     Upgrade  Information

   Current registered  Clarion Professional  Developer  owners
may upgrade for about $200.00. Clarion is pre-accepting orders
for those  who want  to be  assured of an as-early-as-possible
shipment of  the product  when it  is  released.  Payment  now
guarantees your  place in  line, first  payments  being  first
shipped. Although  Clarion is as anxious to start (and finish)
shipping upgrades as anyone, they will only be able to fulfill
a certain  number of  orders each week, end early payment will
give you a place at the head of the line. Contact your Clarion
sales representative for complete details and exact pricing.

                        A  Final  Note

   In our  first issue this year the CTJ did an interview with
Bruce Barrington  on the future of Clarion, specifically aimed
at answering many of the even - then burning questions of what
was and  was not to be forthcoming in 3.0. It is gratifying to
find that  the interview  is as  publishable today  as it  was
nearly a  year ago - Clarion has stuck to their plan, in fact,
the major  difference between what was discussed then and what
is being  announced now  is that now there is more, much more.
Clarion has  been stable  as a product and as a company, which
is to  all of  our benefit.  I urge  you to  value and respect
that.

   It may  seem as if Clarion is slow out of gate. In fact, it
may be  true. Probably to the chagrin of the marketing-side of
the company  Clarion doesn't seem to be first when it comes to
getting the  latest thing  to the  dealers' shelves.  But, and
something for  which I  am grateful, when Clarion comes out of
the gate,  they're at a full run and on a steady course. There
have  already  been  a  number  of  Clarion  competitors  with
releases that  tout many  of the features listed here. Few are
actually running  all of  these features;  they're either only
partially implemented or so bug-filled as to be useless.

   Although Clarion  3.O may  have a  shorter beta  cycle than
desired,  the  history  of  the  product,  and  the  care  and
attention  given   to  the   user  interface   throughout  the
development cycle, should assure us of an elegant. useful, and
powerful product at release.
