Фирма ИНСАЙТ*INSIGHT Comp. - Официальный Дилер CLARION Software Corp.
103460, Москва, Зеленоград, Панфиловский проспект, корп. 1205
	т. 532-29-43, (531-82-30)       факс    531-18-94
	E-Mail: puh@pczz.msk.su         Fido:   2:5020/11.2
----------------------------------------------------------------------

              Clarion' DBMS    gets outside data

                        by Scott Mace.

   Clarion software  will demonstrate  this week a new version
of its  DBMS and  compiler that  accesses a variety of data in
non Clarion files.

   Professional Developer 3.0, due out in the first quarter of
1992, will  include replaceable  database drivers for Btrieve,
Ctree, dBase, Clipper, Fox, Paradox, and Netware SQL files. An
Oracle interface  and a SQL Server driver will be available as
options to  3.0 shortly  after  it  ships,  according  to  the
company.

   Users of Professional Developer's application generator can
now  assemble   applications  by   selecting  and  customizing
components from  an extensive catalog of visual templates. The
catalog includes  dozens  of components, such as pop-up menus,
pull down  menus, file  browsers, pop-up  and in  line  update
forms, batch record delete and update, multilevel reports, and
side by side labels. Source code can be embedded anywhere in a
template, as a required, to further customize applications.

   Clarion's  visual,   interactive      development   process
encourages  participation  by  end-users  and  provides  rapid
prototyping as by-products, according to Clarion officials.

   Clarion  also   claims  that  applications  developed  with
Professional Developer  3.0 have  dramatically faster internal
computing  speed,   compared  to   compiled  Fox   or  Clipper
applications. "It  doesn't, however,  imply anything  for disk
access speed, "said database consultant Adam Green.
   Bruce Barrington,  chairman   and  chief  engineer  of  the
Pompano Beach,  Florida, company,  defends  the  benchmark  as
evidence that  Clarion has  the only  DBMS with  a compiler to
generate true  Intel-architecture machine  code.  Clarion  has
licensed the  TopSpeed optimizing code generator from Jensen &
Partners International  for use  in version 3.0. "It's true, a
typical database program is waiting on disk input/output a lot
, but  the  internal  speed  of  program  is  important  too."
Barrington said.

   The technology  for creating  Clarion database  drivers  is
open, so  a driver  can be written for any PC database with an
APl for the C language, Clarion said.

   Professional Developer  3.0 uses  TopSpeed's  Dynamic  Link
Libraries to  run large  applications within  the DOS limit of
640k. Clarion  programs use  both expanded and extended memory
for screen images, memory queues, and other temporary storage.

   With version  3.0, the  Clarion language  has been enhanced
with mixed  graphics and  text,  mouse  support,  and  special
windows effects  such as  zoom, wipe,  fade, fall, and "smart"
shadows. Graphic images can now be displayed on text screens.

   Clarion will  demonstrate the  $995  product  at  it  first
annual developer's  conference this  week in  Fort Lauderdale,
Florida.
